README.md, before:

# LISAN INTELLIGENCE

> A quantitative crypto signal platform with a 14-indicator scoring engine.  
> Replace gut feelings with math. Free. No paywall. Just signals.

**🔗 Live:** [lisanintel.com](https://lisanintel.com)

---

## What Is This?

LISAN INTELLIGENCE is a research tool that analyzes cryptocurrency markets using 14 technical indicators across 4 categories (Momentum, Trend, Volume, Sentiment). It generates LONG/SHORT/HOLD signals with confidence scores and ATR-based risk levels.

**It is NOT:**
- A trading bot
- Financial advice
- A guarantee of profits

---

## Features

- **14-Indicator Scoring Engine** — RSI, MACD, Ichimoku, Bollinger Bands, Fear & Greed Index, and more
- **20 Curated Assets** — Major cryptos with sufficient liquidity for reliable TA
- **ATR-Based Risk Levels** — Dynamic stop loss and take profit calculations (1:2 R:R)
- **Self-Learning Weights** — System adapts indicator weights based on signal performance
- **Real-Time Tracking** — WebSocket-based outcome monitoring via Hyperliquid
- **Transparency Dashboard** — Full performance history at `/proof` with win rates and cumulative returns
- **Shareable Signal Cards** — Generate PNGs and share to X/Twitter
- **Quant View** — Dense data table with CSV export for institutional workflows
- **Watchlist** — Track assets and monitor price changes from when you added them
- **User Authentication** — Email/password login with cloud data persistence
- **Cross-Device Sync** — Your signals, watchlist, and learning progress sync across devices

---

## Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS
- **Database:** Supabase (PostgreSQL + Auth)
- **Data Sources:** Binance API, Hyperliquid API, Alternative.me
- **Deployment:** Vercel

---

## Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/LisanXG/lisan-intelligence.git
cd lisan-intelligence

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the app.

---

## Documentation

Full technical whitepaper available at [lisanintel.com/docs](https://lisanintel.com/docs)

---

## Author

Built by [Lisan](https://lisanholdings.dev) — Navy veteran, former defense contractor, now building tools in the open.

---

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Fix license: all rights reserved, not MIT

README.md, after:

# LISAN INTELLIGENCE

> A quantitative crypto signal platform with a 14-indicator scoring engine.  
> Replace gut feelings with math. Free. No paywall. Just signals.

**🔗 Live:** [lisanintel.com](https://lisanintel.com)

---

## What Is This?

LISAN INTELLIGENCE is a research tool that analyzes cryptocurrency markets using 14 technical indicators across 4 categories (Momentum, Trend, Volume, Sentiment). It generates LONG/SHORT/HOLD signals with confidence scores and ATR-based risk levels.

**It is NOT:**
- A trading bot
- Financial advice
- A guarantee of profits

---

## Features

- **14-Indicator Scoring Engine** — RSI, MACD, Ichimoku, Bollinger Bands, Fear & Greed Index, and more
- **20 Curated Assets** — Major cryptos with sufficient liquidity for reliable TA
- **ATR-Based Risk Levels** — Dynamic stop loss and take profit calculations (1:2 R:R)
- **Self-Learning Weights** — System adapts indicator weights based on signal performance
- **Real-Time Tracking** — WebSocket-based outcome monitoring via Hyperliquid
- **Transparency Dashboard** — Full performance history at `/proof` with win rates and cumulative returns
- **Shareable Signal Cards** — Generate PNGs and share to X/Twitter
- **Quant View** — Dense data table with CSV export for institutional workflows
- **Watchlist** — Track assets and monitor price changes from when you added them
- **User Authentication** — Email/password login with cloud data persistence
- **Cross-Device Sync** — Your signals, watchlist, and learning progress sync across devices

---

## Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS
- **Database:** Supabase (PostgreSQL + Auth)
- **Data Sources:** Binance API, Hyperliquid API, Alternative.me
- **Deployment:** Vercel

---

## Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/LisanXG/lisan-intelligence.git
cd lisan-intelligence

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the app.

---

## Documentation

Full technical whitepaper available at [lisanintel.com/docs](https://lisanintel.com/docs)

---

## Author

Built by [Lisan](https://lisanholdings.dev) — Navy veteran, former defense contractor, now building tools in the open.

---

## License

All rights reserved. This source code is provided for reference only and may not be copied, modified, or distributed without permission.
